Skip to Main Content
Coursera
SEARCH IN COURSE
Search in course


Felipe Kühne

Structuring Machine Learning Projects
Week 1
Bird Recognition in the City of Peacetopia (Case Study)
Introduction to ML Strategy
Connect with your Mentors and Fellow Learners on Discourse!
Setting Up your Goal
Comparing to Human-level Performance
Lecture Notes (Optional)
Machine Learning Flight Simulator
Reading: ReadingMachine Learning Flight Simulator
. Duration: 2 minutes2 min
Quiz: Bird Recognition in the City of Peacetopia (Case Study)
15 questions
Heroes of Deep Learning (Optional)
Bird Recognition in the City of Peacetopia (Case Study)
Quiz1 hour 15 minutes • 1h 15m
Submit your assignment
Due July 3, 11:59 PM -03Jul 3, 11:59 PM -03
Attempts 3 every 24 hours
Receive grade
To Pass 80% or higher
Your grade
66.66%
We keep your highest score

Bird Recognition in the City of Peacetopia (Case Study)
Graded Quiz. • 1h 15m

DueJul 3, 11:59 PM -03
Try again once you are ready
Grade received 66.66%
Latest Submission Grade 66.67%
To pass 80% or higher
1.
Question 1
This example is adapted from a real production application, but with details disguised to protect confidentiality.


You are a famous researcher in the City of Peacetopia. The people of Peacetopia have a common characteristic: they are afraid of birds. To save them, you have to build an algorithm that will detect any bird flying over Peacetopia and alert the population.

The City Council gives you a dataset of 10,000,000 images of the sky above Peacetopia, taken from the city’s security cameras. They are labeled:

y = 0: There is no bird on the image

y = 1: There is a bird on the image


Your goal is to build an algorithm able to classify new images taken by security cameras from Peacetopia.

There are a lot of decisions to make:

What is the evaluation metric?

How do you structure your data into train/dev/test sets?

Metric of success

The City Council tells you the following that they want an algorithm that

Has high accuracy.

Runs quickly and takes only a short time to classify a new image.

Can fit in a small amount of memory, so that it can run in a small processor that the city will attach to many different security cameras.

You meet with them and ask for just one evaluation metric. True/False?

0 / 1 point

Incorrect
No. More than one metric expands the choices and tradeoffs you have to decide for each with unknown effects on the other two.

2.
Question 2
After further discussions, the city narrows down its criteria to: 

"We need an algorithm that can let us know a bird is flying over Peacetopia as accurately as possible."

"We want the trained model to take no more than 10 sec to classify a new image.” 

“We want the model to fit in 10MB of memory.” 

If you had the three following models, which one would you choose?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Correct! This model has the highest test accuracy, the prominent criteria you are looking for, compared with other models, and also has a runtime <10 seconds and memory size < 10MB.

3.
Question 3
Which of the following best answers why it is important to identify optimizing and satisficing metrics?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. Thresholds are essential for evaluation of key use case constraints.

4.
Question 4
With 10,000,000 data points, what is the best option for train/dev/test splits?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. The size of the data set allows for bias and variance evaluation with smaller data sets.

5.
Question 5
Now that you’ve set up your train/dev/test sets, the City Council comes across another 1,000,000 images from social media and offers them to you. These images are different from the distribution of images the City Council had originally given you, but you think it could help your algorithm. Which of the following is the best use of that additional data?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. It is not a problem to have different training and dev distributions. Different dev and test distributions would be an issue.

6.
Question 6
One member of the City Council knows a little about machine learning and thinks you should add the 1,000,000 citizens’ data images proportionately to the train/dev/test sets. You object because:

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. Using the data in the training set could be beneficial, but you wouldn't want to include such images in your test set as they are not from the expected distribution of data you'll see in production.

7.
Question 7
You train a system, and the train/dev set errors are 3.5% and 4.0% respectively. You decide to try regularization to close the train/dev accuracy gap. Do you agree?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. You need to know what the human performance level is to estimate avoidable bias.

8.
Question 8
You want to define what human-level performance is to the city council. Which of the following is the best answer?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. The best human performance is closest to Bayes' error.

9.
Question 9
Which of the below shows the optimal order of accuracy from worst to best?

0 / 1 point

Incorrect
No. in an optimal scenario, your algorithm's performance would be better than HLP but it can never be better than BE.

10.
Question 10
After working on your algorithm you have to decide the next steps. Currently, human-level performance is 0.1%, training is at 2.0% and the dev set is at 2.1%. Which statement below best describes your thought process?

0 / 1 point

Incorrect
You didn't select all the correct answers

11.
Question 11
You’ve now also run your model on the test set and find that it is a 7.0% error compared to a 2.1% error for the dev set. What should you do? (Choose all that apply)

0 / 1 point

Incorrect
You didn't select all the correct answers

12.
Question 12
After working on this project for a year, you finally achieve: 

Human-level performance

0.10%

Training set error

0.05%

Dev set error

0.05%

What can you conclude? (Check all that apply.)

1 / 1 point

Correct
Great, you got all the right answers.

13.
Question 13
It turns out Peacetopia has hired one of your competitors to build a system as well. You and your competitor both deliver systems with about the same running time and memory size. However, your system has higher accuracy! Still, when Peacetopia tries out both systems, they conclude they like your competitor’s system better because, even though you have higher overall accuracy, you have more false negatives (failing to raise an alarm when a bird is in the air). What should you do?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. The target has shifted so an updated metric is required.

14.
Question 14
You’ve handily beaten your competitor, and your system is now deployed in Peacetopia and is protecting the citizens from birds! But over the last few months, a new species of bird has been slowly migrating into the area, so the performance of your system slowly degrades because your model is being tested on a new type of data. There are only 1,000 images of the new species. The city expects a better system from you within the next 3 months. Which of these should you do first?

1 / 1 point

Correct
Yes. A sufficient number of images is necessary to account for the new species.

15.
Question 15
The City Council thinks that having more Cats in the city would help scare off birds. They are so happy with your work on the Bird detector that they also hire you to build a Cat detector. You have a huge dataset of 100,000,000 cat images. Training on this data takes about two weeks. Which of the statements do you agree with? (Check all that agree.)

0 / 1 point

Incorrect
You chose the extra incorrect answers.

